---
title: "Memory and prediction in the 4-in-a-row game"
weight: 2
resources:
    - src: 4iar_eyemap.png
      params:
          weight: -100
---
#### Schema-based predictive eye-movements support sequential memory encoding
When forming a memory of an experience that is unfolding over time, we can use our schematic knowledge about the world (constructed based on many prior episodes) to predict what will transpire. We developed a novel paradigm to study how the development of a complex schema influences predictive processes during perception and impacts sequential memory. Participants learned to play a novel board game (“4-in-a-row”) across six training sessions, and repeatedly performed a memory test in which they watched and recalled sequences of moves from the game. We found that participants gradually became better at remembering sequences from the game as their schema developed, driven by improved accuracy for schema-consistent moves. Eye tracking revealed that increased predictive eye movements during encoding, which were most prevalent in expert players, were associated with better memory. Our results identify prediction as a mechanism by which schematic knowledge can improve episodic memory.  [[preprint]](https://psyarxiv.com/gej7q)

#### Behind the Scene
In my first year of grad school, Chris told me about this game that Weiji Ma's group developed. It's a simple board game called 4-in-a-row, where the objective is to be the first player to form a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line of four of their own pieces on a 4x9 board. The game enabled people to develop a complex schema in a reasonable amount of time. Over the spring and summer of 2021, we conducted a 6-session longitudinal study online, and we found some interesting results to show how people gradually became better at remembering schema-consistent moves over time. In the start of my second year, I realized another interesting aspect of this game - that different spatial locations correspond to possible next moves. This allows us to get a behavioral measure of people's prediction by measuring their eye-movements. I was really excited about the idea, because I've always felt like prediction has been mostly measured with behaviors. I was extremely busy, taking three classes and collecting fMRI data for my MoL study that semester and I was luck to have the help from Isabel, a post-bac student who joined our lab to get some required research hours for the program. She ended up collected > 100 hours worth of eye-tracking data (with a extremely terrible experiment setup because there's a web version of the experiment working and I was too lazy to learn psychopy then). We found some cool results of how prediction develops as a result of schema development and how they're closely tight to the memory improvement. 

We're following up with two more studies to address different questions with this method, one with eye-tracking and one with fMRI+eye-tracking (in collaboration with Dr. Mariam Aly and Dr. Serra Favila). I'm very excited about these projects. 
